Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to be cutting our dependency not by introducing something called an action
scheduler.
The idea will be that when you are attacking something it will cancel the last thing which was movement.
And if I am moving away then it will cancel the fighting.
So this is all being done via a schedule I can go backwards and forwards cancelling these things attacking
things will continue to attack things and so on.
So this is the idea we're going to be using an action schedule to tell us what should be canceled and
to do that in a way where not everything has to depend on anything else.
So we don't have to have combat dependent fighting and sorry movement depending on fighting and we don't
have to have movement depend on maybe any other actions that we could do such as picking up inventory
items all of that can now be handled through the scheduling.
So let's dive in and see how to build it.
So we've got this nasty dependency cycle at the moment where combat depends on movement to move.
That's fine but vice versa.
We've got movement depending on combat to cancel not so great.
I think we can do something about that.
So how do you go about breaking dependency cycles.
Well you think about whether you need to have a direct reference to this thing or whether you can do
it via something else that you can both mutually depend on.
So that's what we're going to do.
Add in a mutual dependency which can break these knots and that's going to be a scheduler.
Because we've been talking about these actions and movement action and combat or fighting action and
the scheduler would be the perfect place to do that.
So when you start a movement action you say hey scheduler I'm starting a movement action.
And then when you start a fighting action you say hey scheduler I'm starting a fighting action and it
can say hey I know that movement was already running so I need to tell movement to stop before I can
tell you to go.
And that's what we're going to do with this introduction of a schedule.
Now it means that the control flow is still going to be going the same way.
By that I mean the movement is still going to be essentially calling to combat but it's not going to
know anything about combat in the process.
It's going to just talk to the scheduler.
The schedule is going to talk to combat and they're all going to be in the next several.
Tell us about.
Tell you about something that allows us to do execution the opposite way to the dependency.
So what I'm saying is that instead of having to have the scheduler depend on combat to call a function
in combat.
We can have combat depend on scheduler so that scheduler calls to combat.
Very strange but we'll have a look at how that works in the next lecture.
So don't worry about it just yet.
So what we want to do is introduce a new class called a scheduler.
So I'm gonna go to core.
This is the right place for.
I think called Action scheduler C.S. and I'm gonna make him on a behavior y core because we want it
to be at the base of things we want it to be dependent upon it's a lower level dependency a lower layer
as we are talking about with namespace as before.
So let's add a namespace This is getting quite routine for us now.
We are namespace core action scheduler.
What should its public API be.
Let's think about that.
Well I'm going to basically start an action is going to be what I'm telling it to do.
What should it take.
Well let's have a little think about that.
We basically want to cancel the mover when the combat starts and fighter starts and we want to cancel
fighter when combat when movement starts.
So maybe a reference to the mono behavior itself would be the action so mono behavior is going to be
an action.
So let's just take a second because I think we just hit on a very interesting topic here which is a
core to a lot of object oriented design and object oriented programming.
In general it's called the substitution principle.
The idea is that when you inherit from something in object oriented programming you have to behave exactly
like that thing.
So for example say we had a missile class and a missile class is something that can be pointed in a
direction and launched right.
So that means that if my bullet derives from missile then it must be able to be pointed in a direction
and launched and you can say that's true of arrow.
It can say is true of rocket.
If all these things derive from missile then they must be able to be pointed in direction and launched.
So that means that the substitution principle says if I have a function that takes in a missile as its
argument for example because it wants to launch it for example then what I should be able to do is actually
give it a bullet or give it an arrow or give it a rocket and it won't know that it's an arrow rocket
or bullet but it can treat it like a missile and it will just do its job without it having to know which
of the subtypes it is.
That's the substitution principle.
You can always substitute a derived type type that inherits from the parent type instead of the parent
type.
So basically we can replace a bullet.
We can pass a bullet to a function instead of a missile.
So why does that help us.
Because in our case what we've got as the parent classes the mono behavior and the mono behavior we
inherit in mover.
And we inherited infighter so this means by the substitution principle that our mono behavior action
can actually be passed a mover or a fighter.
In fact it could also be passed a player controller and so on so forth which isn't quite right but we're
going to fix that later on in a follow up lecture.
Not in this lecture.
So with that said what are we trying to achieve with this substitution of model behavior.
Well what we want to be able to do is cancel this action at the right time.
So I'm actually going to leave that as a challenge to you folks to cancel or to get cancelled printing
because ideally what we'd actually want to do is call cancel on the action model behavior.
But because model behavior doesn't have a cancel function.
We don't know for sure that's the exact amount of behavior we're being passed in actually has one to
know that for sure we're going to need interfaces which are the subject of the next lecture.
So what I'm gonna get you to do just for now is instead of calling the function just print that you
are going to cancel that action.
That's basically all I want.
So we should start off by calling start action from both the mover and the fighter in the appropriate
places.
When you are starting the action then we should cancel the previous action.
So I would expect to see a log message at this point.
So if you started moving after you've just been fighting I would expect to see that the movie has been
cancelled and then it shouldn't cancel itself.
So if you start moving again and when you've already started moving it shouldn't print any cancellation.
So pause the video and have a go at setting up this mono behavior.
Remember you need to add it to your player prefab as well okay.
Welcome back.
Let's get that going.
So what we're gonna need to do is keep a reference to the last action that was running.
So it's going to be mono behavior current action and it starts off as no.
And then what we're gonna do is we're gonna set that current action in start action like so now that's
all well and good but we need to print out when we want to cancel.
When should that be so we can.
We need to do it before we've overwritten it.
So let's do a print then canceling and then I can just add on the current action.
So let's put some spaces between here for pretties and coding consistency and let's see what that does.
First of all I'm going to need to actually call start action.
So maybe you missed this step but we do obviously need to start the action from both mover and the fighter.
So where's the logical place to do in fighter when we start the attack saying and do get components
of type action central to and we're gonna call start action with this.
Now I'm going to need to include the core namespace for this like that and that will work.
And then in move we wanted to do the same thing and starting the move action.
We need to call start action and we need to include that namespace.
So if I go in to play this what's gonna happen.
We're going to need to let's see go into player add a component to player call the action scheduler
otherwise we'll get null references and we hit play and if I hadn't noticed this we seem to be calling
canceling all the time.
That's one thing but also that first time we see that first action didn't cancel anything that's because
we had a null pointer so we don't want that.
So we're going to do if current action is not equal to no then we can print cancelling it's that first
thing taken care of.
The second thing is that we are canceling when they are when the mover is trying to stop them after
the move.
So we don't want that to happen.
So if the current action is already equal to the action we don't need to take any kind of action.
We don't need to set it.
We don't need to cancel because it's already running so we can just leave it at that.
Let's try that out.
Just gonna restart play.
Moving around does nothing because we started off with none.
There was nothing to cancel so this was the first action and because it's all movement.
All these calls to action are going to be just returning because we're already moving.
But if I click on the enemy they go it's canceling the mover and if I click away then it's canceling
the fighter and vice versa can keep doing that as long as I like okay so that's got us set up with the
right kind of cancelling flow in the next video we're going to look at how we can actually call a cancel
function on this mono behavior without having to cast it and say hey is it a movie in which case call
this function Hey is it a fighter.
In which case call this function because that's just a pain in the bum and introduces a lot of dependencies
because then our action scheduler is going to be depending on the combat and it's going to be depending
on the movement and that's going to create more circuit dependencies so we don't want that.
So let's have a look at how we can attain that kind of behavior in the next lecture.
See that.